Snyk action docs (#17)
guardian/.github: .github/workflows/README.md

# Snyk

We have two Snyk actions. [sbt-node-snyk](sbt-node-snyk.yml) and [sbt-node-snyk-pr](sbt-node-snyk-pr.yml).

It is recommended you use both on your project for greater coverage.

## Requirements

1. `SNYK_TOKEN` must be available in your repo's 'Actions secrets' under 'Organization secrets' (Go to `/settings/secrets/actions`). If you cannot see this, ask an engineering manager to add it to your repo.

> 1. `with: ORG:` be sure to edit this in the `yml` examples below. This will be the org ID within Snyk.
> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48949546/112194614-f6985880-8c00-11eb-946f-a88fdae57662.jpg)

Author: ```suggestion
1. `with: ORG:` be sure to edit this in the `yml` examples below. This will be the org ID within Snyk. [Organisations](https://docs.snyk.io/introducing-snyk/snyks-core-concepts/groups-organizations-and-users#snyk-organizations) are contained within the main `guardian` group and often correspond to teams. You can [create a new organisation](https://docs.snyk.io/features/user-and-group-management/managing-groups-and-organizations/manage-snyk-organizations) if yours doesn't exist already.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48949546/112194614-f6985880-8c00-11eb-946f-a88fdae57662.jpg)
```

A convention we have is to have these files called `.github/workflows/snyk.yml` and `.github/workflows/snyk-pr.yml`.

# [`snyk monitor`](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/commands/monitor)

This action creates a project in your Snyk account to monitor open source SBT and Node vulnerabilities and license issues on a cron job.

## Usage

See [sbt-node-snyk.yml](sbt-node-snyk.yml)

### Basic usage

```yml
name: Snyk

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 6 * * *'
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  security:
    uses: guardian/.github/.github/workflows/sbt-node-snyk.yml@main
    with:
      ORG: ~
    secrets:
       SNYK_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SNYK_TOKEN }}
```

> `ORG` is required and should be your organisation ID in Snyk. If this organisation doesn't exist, it will be created.

Author: This isn't true and can be seen with [this error](https://github.com/guardian/frontend/runs/6174500338?check_suite_focus=true#step:6:44).

Author: ```suggestion
`ORG` is required and should be your organisation ID in Snyk.
```

# Snyk

We have two Snyk actions. [sbt-node-snyk](sbt-node-snyk.yml) and [sbt-node-snyk-pr](sbt-node-snyk-pr.yml).

It is recommended you use both on your project for greater coverage.

## Requirements

1. `SNYK_TOKEN` must be available in your repo's 'Actions secrets' under 'Organization secrets' (Go to `/settings/secrets/actions`). If you cannot see this, ask an engineering manager to add it to your repo.

> 1. `with: ORG:` be sure to edit this in the `yml` examples below. This will be the org within Snyk

Reviewer: I think specifically this needs to be the organisation ID (i.e. the slug in the URL) rather than the organisation name. Often these are the same, but you can change the name and that won't change the ID. (Which has been done in the screenshot you've used)

Author: I'm not sure there is an org name, only an ID. The image below shows this, but I've updated it to be more specific in case they allow you to label your org in the future.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48949546/112194614-f6985880-8c00-11eb-946f-a88fdae57662.jpg)

A convention we have is to have these files called `.github/workflows/snyk.yml` and `.github/workflows/snyk-pr.yml`.

# [`snyk monitor`](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/commands/monitor)

This action creates a project in your Snyk account to monitor open source SBT and Node vulnerabilities and license issues on a cron job.

## Usage

See [sbt-node-snyk.yml](sbt-node-snyk.yml)

### Basic usage

```yml
name: Snyk

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 6 * * *'
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  security:
    uses: guardian/.github/.github/workflows/sbt-node-snyk.yml@main
    with:
      ORG: ~
    secrets:
       SNYK_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SNYK_TOKEN }}
```

> `ORG` is required and should be your organisation name in Snyk. If this organisation doesn't exist, it will be created.

Author: ```suggestion
`ORG` is required and should be your organisation ID in Snyk. If this organisation doesn't exist, it will be created.
```

This will scan both SBT and Node vulnerabilities.

> ### Advanced usage

Reviewer: The advanced usage code snippets are the same as basic but with the single change to the option? Should we be a bit less verbose and just include that part of the snippet? e.g. 

```
security:
    uses: guardian/.github/.github/workflows/sbt-node-snyk.yml@main
    with:
      ORG: ~
      SKIP_NODE: true
```

or just 

`SKIP_NODE: true`

Author: The reason I've tended to do this is to copy/paste the code, making it easier for people using the docs. Do you think it's easier to just have the snippets? Or maybe just outline what the options do rather than examples?

#### Skip Node

```yml
name: Snyk
# ...
on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 6 * * *'
  push:
    branches:
      - main

>   pull_request:

Author: ```suggestion
```

  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  security:
    uses: guardian/.github/.github/workflows/sbt-node-snyk.yml@main
    with:
      ORG: ~
      SKIP_NODE: true
    secrets:
       SNYK_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SNYK_TOKEN }}
```

> #### Skip SBT

Reviewer: Github doesn't seem to be recognising this heading, not sure why.

Author: ```suggestion
#### Skip SBT
```

Author: It's because I've hit alt+space, which is really annoying. 

[See here for more details](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/34672/whats-altspacebar-character-and-how-to-disable-it)

```yml
name: Snyk
# ...
on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 6 * * *'
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  security:
    uses: guardian/.github/.github/workflows/sbt-node-snyk.yml@main
    with:
      ORG: ~
      SKIP_SBT: true
    secrets:
       SNYK_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SNYK_TOKEN }}
```

More options can be found in [the inputs of the action](sbt-node-snyk.yml#L5).

# [`snyk test`](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/commands/test)

This action checks projects for open source SBT and Node vulnerabilities and license issues.

> This should be run `on: pull_request`. `on: pull_request: paths` is optional but is recommendedto reduce the risk of producing unhelpful results.

Reviewer: Heads up that I think there may end up being a bit of nuance in our recommendation for pull request checks e.g. with regards to dependabot which won't work as expected out of the box - but we can flesh this out in a different PR.

Author: Super, it'd be good to hear what these are.

## Usage

See [sbt-node-snyk-pr.yml](sbt-node-snyk-pr.yml)

### Basic usage

```yml

> name: Snyk

Author: ```suggestion
name: Snyk PR
```

on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - 'build.sbt'
      - 'package.json'

jobs:
  security:
    uses: guardian/.github/.github/workflows/sbt-node-snyk-pr.yml@main
    with:
      ORG: ~
      SEVERITY_THRESHOLD: critical
    secrets:
       SNYK_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SNYK_TOKEN }}
```

> `ORG` is required and should be your organisation name in Snyk. If this organisation doesn't exist, it will be created.

Reviewer: I did not know it would be created! Do you have a link to the docs for that?

Author: Ooh - turns out monitor does, not test.
https://support.snyk.io/hc/en-us/articles/360000920818-What-are-the-differences-among-snyk-test-monitor-and-protect-

Author: ```suggestion
`ORG` is required and should be your organisation ID in Snyk.
```
